{
  title: "Using refinery"
  share_message: "refinery is itch.io's new solution for distributing closed builds"
  amp: true
}

**itch.io refinery** is a customizable toolset made for developers to
distribute their games in progress, build a real community and gain useful
feedback. For more information you can visit our [overview page](/refinery). We
launched **refinery** May 13th, 2016.

<img style="display: block; margin: auto; max-width: 100%;" src="https://docs.itch.ovh/brand/rf/assets/logos/refinery_transparent.svg" alt="Refinery logo" />

$index

## Why refinery?

Too often we've seen developers adopt an *early access* program as a way of
collecting playtesting feedback and starting a source of revenue. There are a
few problems with this approach:

* **Your game is publicly available** -- You've launched something you know isn't perfect, and not everyone who plays it will be understanding. You may be swamped with negative feedback and bad reviews that may damage the future success of the game.
* **You've officially launched your game** -- The day you launch your game is one of the most important days in your game's lifespan: it's typically when you'll have the most people watching, talking, and buying. Very rarely do we see games leaving early access getting attention comparable to their initial launch.

For some developers, these may not be an issue, but it's an awfully big risk to
take. Launching something incomplete may jeopardize the success of the entire
project.

You're proud of what you built, so you owe it to yourself to launch with
something *polished* in order to optimize the happiness of your players and the
amount of copies you can sell.

**refinery is for polishing games**. We've built refinery to give developers a
staging area for their launch. **refinery** enables you to create your own
distribution model: Limited keys, closed and open playtesting environments,
tiered purchases and digital rewards are all possible. In this guide we'll
cover how itch.io makes all of these available


## Pricing

**refinery** is completely free. itch.io pioneered **Open Revenue Sharing**: a
marketplace revenue sharing system that content creators completely control. As
a developer, you set itch.io marketplace cut for all of your transactions.

$link_btn{"Learn more about Open Revenue Sharing",
  $url_for{"docs", { splat = "general/about" }}}

## The toolset

### Limited keys

Our [Exclusive content][exclusive-content] system lets you set quantity
restricted rewards for people who purchase your game. You can provide a price
point, and set the maximum quantity. You can create multiple tiers if you have
different things to offer.

$link_btn{"Learn about exclusive content",
  $url_for{"docs", { splat = "creators/exclusive-content" }}}

### Closed playtesting

For **refinery** we've completely re-worked how you can grant access to your
project pages. The spectrum ranges from fully restricted to a list of people
you specify use, to a password protected page, a secret URL, or completely
open.

Limited keys will let you give access to just your most interested fans, the
people who will most likely be giving you the best feedback.

You can even apply the same access control to your community: only people
you've invited or people who have bought your game can have access.

$link_btn{"Learn about access control",
  $url_for{"docs", { splat = "creators/access-control" }}}

### Binary patching and game distribution

itch.io hosts all the files for your games. It's no longer necessary to share
links to Dropbox to distribute a build. For **refinery** we've built an
entirely new distribution platform with binary patching, it's called
[wharf](https://itch.io/docs/wharf/).

**For developers**: you can update your game frequently, and only upload what's
changed. We've provided command lines tools that are simple to integrate into
your workflow. You shouldn't be penalized to send a new build to your testers
just because your game is big. Our tools support resumable uploads for when
you're deploying without reliable internet.

**For game players**: you'll be able to utilize the patching system to have the
most up to date version without having to re-download every time. Users of [our
app](/app) will get automatic updates.

Having an efficient way to distribute builds is crucial: if your players have
to download a large build every time they're likely to lose interest.
Additionally, you'll be hesitant to push frequently, hurting your ability to
iterate on new ideas.

With [butler](https://itch.io/docs/butler/), our command line tool, these
problems no longer exist.

### Tiered purchases

Give your early supporters access to something special with our tiered purchase
and reward system. Any files you upload can be [configured to unlock at
specific price points][pricing]. If you have digital rewards then you can start
selling them as part of your refinery release.

Our [exclusive content][exclusive-content] system lets you offer limited
quantity rewards, whether it's a digital appearance in your game or physical
merchandise, we've got you covered.

$link_btn{"Learn more about pricing your content",
  $url_for{"docs", { splat = "creators/pricing" }}}

### Communities

A healthy developer-player relationship is critical for refining a game for its
launch. Being able to effectively collect feedback, while also engaging with
your audience, will give you a huge advantage.

itch.ioâ€™s community tools give you a way to quickly attach a discussion to any
project page. The community tools are fully featured: you can moderate posts,
elect moderators, handle bans & blocks, report posts, subscribe to topics, etc.

$link_btn{"Learn more about interacting with your fans",
  $url_for{"docs", { splat = "creators/interact" }}}

## Join us in making refinery everything you need

These initial set of tools are far from what we envision refinery being in the
future. We know that developers have all kinds of ideas about how they want to
distribute their game. We're up for the challenge.

$link_btn{"Join the refinery community", "https://itch.io/board/24575/refinery"}

